>> Mike North: So the next thing we're
gonna do is jump into kind of a crush
course around TypeScript and how we
would add types to modern JavaScript.
At a high level we're gonna talk about
variables, ordered data structures
like arrays and tuples, and
tuples are just a specific kind of array.
We'll talk a little bit about objects and
then the equivalent of the logical AND
and OR operator end types.
So we call these union and
intersection types, but
they will remind you a lot of AND, and OR.
So we're gonna switch away
from this slide here.
But if you wanna follow along,
there are a bunch of files in
the notes folder of the exercises
of this workshop project.
And I've done this deliberately so
that you can hover over things, and
look at what the tooltip say,
and kind of poke around at it.
So like feel free to do
that as we're discussing,
because your editor is gonna give you
a lot of feedback about what's going on.
And I'm gonna walk through and
uncomment things step by step so
that we can kind of learn about how
TypeScript works incrementally.
>> Mike North: Notes/1, here we go.
So, first let's look at
point number 1 here.
This is just a regular
JavaScript statement, right?
It is a variable declaration,
that's what we would call it.
Like I declare that x exists.
It's a let declaration.
Anybody know what makes this
different from a const declaration?
What's the difference between let and
const?
>> Speaker 2: Reassignment.
>> Mike North: Reassignment, so
let can be reassigned, const cannot.
The type of x ends up being string.
That's what our tooltip tells us.
And that makes sense because we're
initializing it with a string.
You don't really have to do too
much work to understand that.
What we're seeing here is inference.
We don't have to type absolutely
everything in our app.
In fact it would be a bad idea to do so.
You kind of end up typing yourself into
a corner, you make your program very,
very rigid if you type every single thing.
So just like any let declaration,
we're able to reassign
it without running into any trouble,
x = "hello mars".
The new thing that TypeScript is
throwing at us is we get an error here
if we attempt to assign it to a value
that's not of the correct type.
And the error we're getting is,
42 is not assignable to type string.
This is obviously telling us that
there's a mismatch of some sort.
And we'll explain why this 42 is here
instead of a number in just a moment.
>> Mike North: Or
instead of the word number.
So let's look at the same example but
with a const declaration.
The type is different here.
The type of y is literally
the string hello world.
And the reason for this,
the reason that we can make this type so
much more specific, and
it's specific because this variable
cannot hold any arbitrary string.
If we think of types as sets, right,
it's like buckets of allowed values.
Our let declaration,
that variable could hold any string.
This can hold specifically a string whose
value is hello world, and no other string.
If we tried to change it down here and set
it to, well if we tried to reassign it,
we'd run into a problem in general,
because it's a const.
But if we tried to pass it into
a function that wants hello
mars,
>> Mike North: We'd
run into a problem here
saying "hello world" and
"hello mars" are not compatible, right?
So this is what we would
call a literal type.
And that means you're enumerating
a set of allowed values,
specific string, specific numbers,
something like that.
And you really could only pick
from one of that set of options.
Now this is TypeScript being
specific because it can.
And it makes us kind of
wanna revisit the let here.
So if the let declaration
were to take on a value.
If that variable were to take
on a value of whatever string we
initialized it with up here, we would have
run into trouble in reassignment, right?
If it were instead of calling itself
string, if it were to say hello world,
now it's like set itself up to
be way too specific by default.
So this is one place where TypeScript
is trying to be as useful and
strict as it can without
getting in your way.
When you're dealing with a value that's
not reassignable, and the value itself
is immutable, we can't change this string,
we can't re-assign the variable,
it's set in stone,
we can be maximally specific there.
We'll see this come up a couple of
times as we explore different things.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: I have two questions,
one of them is simpler.
So when the tool tip shows up with
the comment, is that a feature of native
TypeScript or is it a feature of
TypeScript's compatibility with JSDoc?
>> Mike North: When we
see the comment pop up?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah.
>> Mike North: So you're asking
about this down here, good question.
So you said,
is it a feature of native TypeScript or
a feature of JSDoc and the editor, right?
Kind of both, TypeScript can
understand those comments and
language server is actually pushing
that comment data up to us.
So the end of the when we start
playing with TypeScript compiler API,
we're gonna build a quick and
dirty documentation tool.
And you'll see that in addition to parsing
the executable code the inert comments,
come a long with it and
we can actually even grab JSDoc tags.
So comments are entirely
inert in TypeScript.
There are certain things you can
do that will affect the output,
one example would be if we did @internal,
this is recently added.
This is a special JSDoc
tag that will mean,
even if this was exported,
leave out the type information.
We may export it for
the purpose of testing this value.
We might wanna import it in tests.
But your declaration files,
those .d.ts files,
those won't have anything
about this specific type, or
this symbol, not a JavaScript symbol,
a TypeScript symbol.
>> Speaker 2: Cool, and then the other
thing I was going to ask was, so
for declaring with const,
and it's like an object,
with keys defined obviously like,
you're getting there.
>> Mike North: Great question,
sorry to cut you off there,
I just know exactly where you're going,
so let's try this a different way.
Const yObj =,
>> Mike North: So same deal, right?
We have const declaration
whose value is an object.
It's going to take on the type,
just as it did.
Now, note that the value of, sorry,
the type of foo within the object
ends up being a string, why,
because the object is mutable.
Consts can't be reassigned, and that
means we can expect the property names in
this object to,
we'll want them to remain what they are.
The assumption is you set this up
deliberately with the properties you
wanted there and if you wanted
to add additional properties,
you would have to give
TypeScript the clue about that.
But we'd be done here in JavaScript to do
yobj.foo = "bye", that's totally allowed.
And if TypeScript would have taken
on the literal value, hello,
as the type, right, we wouldn't been
able to able to do this neatly.
So, again,
it's trying to stay out of your way but
being as strict as possible
within those bound.